Title: Flat Tire Replacement Guide

Document Version: 1.0

Author: Chatbot Mechanic Team

Introduction:
A flat tire can happen unexpectedly and it's important for drivers to know how to safely replace a flat tire with a spare. This guide will walk you through the basic steps of changing a tire on the side of the road.

Tools and Materials Required:

Spare tire (properly inflated)
Lug wrench
Jack
Wheel wedges
Flashlight (with extra batteries if not LED)
Gloves
Rain poncho (weather dependent)
Vehicle owner's manual
Instructions:

Step 1: Safety Precautions

If you’re on the road, pull over to a safe, level area that’s away from traffic.
Turn on your hazard lights.
Apply the parking brake and place wheel wedges under the opposite tires.
Step 2: Remove the Wheel Cover or Hubcap

If your car has a hubcap covering the lug nuts, it's usually easier to remove the hubcap before lifting the vehicle with the jack.
Use the flat end of your lug wrench to pry the hubcap off.
Step 3: Loosen the Lug Nuts

Use the lug wrench to loosen the lug nuts by turning them counterclockwise.
Do not remove the lug nuts entirely yet, just break their resistance.
Step 4: Lift the Vehicle Off the Ground

Place the jack under the vehicle’s frame near the tire that you are going to change. Vehicles usually have a specific spot near each wheel where the jack is intended to fit.
Refer to your owner’s manual for the correct placement of the jack.
Pump or crank the jack to lift the tire off the ground. Make sure it’s high enough so that the flat tire can be removed and the spare tire can be placed on the car.
Step 5: Remove the Lug Nuts and Tire

Once the tire is off the ground, remove the lug nuts all the way.
Keep the lug nuts in a pile so they don’t get scattered.
Grip the flat tire by the treads and pull it gently towards you until it’s free from the hub.
Set the flat tire on its side so that it doesn’t roll away.
Step 6: Mount the Spare Tire on the Lug Bolts

Lift the spare tire and line it up with the lug bolts.
Push gently until the lug bolts show through the rim.
Tighten the lug nuts by hand as much as you can.
Step 7: Lower the Vehicle and Tighten the Lug Nuts Again

Use the jack to lower the vehicle so that the spare tire is resting on the ground but the full weight of the vehicle isn’t fully on the tire.
Once the car is lowered, tighten the lug nuts with the wrench, turning clockwise, as much as you can.
Step 8: Lower the Vehicle Completely

Bring the vehicle all the way to the ground and remove the jack.
Give the lug nuts another pull with the wrench to ensure they’re as tight as possible.
Step 9: Replace the Wheel Cover

If you have a hubcap, place it over the lug nuts and press it into place by hitting it with the heel of your hand.
Step 10: Stow All Equipment

Put all your tools and the flat tire back in your vehicle. Make sure you don’t leave anything on the side of the road.
Document Conclusion
After installing the spare tire, drive cautiously and go to a mechanic or tire shop to have your flat tire repaired or replaced as soon as possible. Spare tires are not designed for long-distance driving or high speeds.

